


[ailink-content]
Communication and interaction
1. Engaging in interaction
1.1 Responds positively to familiar adult
1.2 Seeks attention from familiar adult
1.3 Shares attention focus with adult
1.4 Engages in interactive exchange with adult
2. Making requests
2.1 Makes request for an item
2.2 Refuses an item / activity
2.3 Makes request for interaction to continue / stop
2.4 Requests help
2.5 Requests information / asks a question
3. Communicating information / commenting on events
3.1 Answers a question
3.2 Communicates information about the past and future
3.3 Expresses opinions / thoughts / feelings
3.4 Gives instructions / explanations
3.5 Gives recounts  and explanations
3.6 Comments/draws attention to item/event
4. Listening and understanding
4.1 Responds to sounds
4.2 Understands single spoken word
4.3 Understands simple statement
4.4 Understands instructions
4.5 Understands questions
4.6 Extracts relevant meaning / information
4.7 Understands humour and figurative speech
4.8 Understands informal speech / slang
5. Greetings
5.1 Responds to greetings / being addressed
5.2 Greets others
6. Conversations
6.1 Gains another’s attention
6.2 Takes lead in conversation
6.3 Responds to conversation partner
6.4 Maintains flow of conversation
7. Non-verbal communication
7.1 Adapts communication / behaviour to suit situation
7.2 Shows evidence of ‘active listening’
7.3 Understands non-verbal communication

Social understanding and relationships
1. Being with others
1.1 Accepts the presence of others in familiar environment
1.2 Engages in shared activity
1.3 Copes with proximity of others in public space
2. Interactive play
2.1 Accepts presence of adult in play environment
2.2 Engages in interactive play with an adult
2.3 Engages in object play with adult
2.4 Engages in play with peers
3. Positive relationships (supporting adults)
3.1 Engages positively with supporting adult
3.2 Accepts help from an adult
3.3 Accesses activities / situations with adult support
3.4 Seeks advice and support from adult
4. Positive relationships and friendships (peers)
4.1 Initiates interaction with peer/s
4.2 Engages positively in interaction with peer/s
4.3 Takes account of others’ interests / needs / feelings within interactions
4.4 Takes action to sustain positive relationship
4.5 Recognises negative or bullying behaviour towards self or others
5. Group activities
5.1 Attends to focus of group
5.2 Participates in group activity
5.3 Is aware of self as part of group
5.4 Understands and conforms to expectations of working in a group
5.5 Participates in group discussion

Sensory processing
1. Understanding and expressing own sensory needs
1.1 Expresses sensory likes / dislikes
1.2 Understands own sensory needs
2. Responding to sensory interventions
2.1 Responds to sensory adaptations to the environment
2.2 Responds to sensory input from supporting adult
2.3 Responds to input using sensory ‘equipment’
2.4 Responds to regular sensory programmes
3. Increasing tolerance of sensory input
3.1 Shows increased tolerance of sensory input
4. Managing own sensory needs
4.1 Accepts support to manage own behaviour in relation to sensory needs
4.2 Requests others’ help to manage sensory needs
4.3 Takes action to manage own sensory needs
4.4 Reflects on sensory needs and behaviour

Interests, routines and processing
1. Coping with change
1.1 Accepts change within familiar situations
1.2 Takes action to cope with change
2. Transitions
2.1 Makes successful transition in ‘everyday’ situation
2.2 Engages with preparation for transition to new setting
3. Special interests
3.1 Uses special interests to engage positively in activities / exchanges
3.2 Engages with a range of activities unrelated to special interests
4. Problem solving and thinking skills
4.1 Makes a choice
4.2 Uses information available to make an appropriate choice
4.3 Sorts items into categories
4.4 Uses information to plan and predict
4.5 Makes deductions based on information available
4.6 Recognises and takes action to solve problems
4.7 Reflects on problems encountered and strategies used

Emotional understanding
and self-awareness
1. Understanding and expressing own emotions
1.1 Expresses a range of emotions
1.2 Identifies own emotions
1.3 Identifies cause of emotion
2. Managing emotions and behaviour
2.1 Responds to calming strategies of others
2.2 Uses own strategies to manage stress
2.3 Takes part in planning and preparing strategies to manage own emotions and behaviour
2.4 Uses taught strategies to manage emotions and behaviour
2.5 Reflects on behaviour
3. Understanding others’ emotions/ intentions
3.1 Recognises and responds to emotions in others
3.2 Identifies cause of emotions in others
3.3 Makes judgements relating to other’s behaviour
3.4 Identifies potential or actual risk within situations
3.5 Is aware of difficulties with ‘reading’ others emotions/ intentions
4. Self-awareness
4.1 Identifies own characteristics
4.2 Identifies interests and strengths
4.3 Understands own diagnosis
4.4 Identifies difficulties
4.5 Is aware of change in relation to self
4.6 Participates in planning for own future
5. Developing confidence and self-esteem
5.1 Expresses preferences
5.2 Expresses opinions / ideas
5.3 Shows confidence within activities
5.4 Responds to negative behaviour

Learning and engagement
1. Learning through play
1.1 Explores toys / objects / materials
1.2 Shows understanding of the purpose of toys / play items
1.3 Engages in cause and effect play
1.4 Engages in pretend / symbolic play
1.5 Enacts story routine /play scenario
2. Motivation  and engagement
2.1 Responds to sensory features of items, activities
2.2 Responds to environment
2.3 Responds to interaction from supporting adult or peer
2.4 Anticipates / predicts what will happen
2.5 Shows interest in items/activity/topic
2.6 Explores /investigates items, activities
2.7 Discovers new knowledge and understanding
2.8 Attends to task, activity
2.9 Persists with activity
2.10 Shifts attention to another task /activity / request
2.11 Initiates / makes request for activity
2.12 Engages in negotiated tasks
3. Organisation and independent learning
3.1 Organises own belongings / resources
3.2 Makes effective use of timetables / planners
3.3 Shows awareness of time management
3.4 Works independently
3.5 Participates in planning own learning
3.6 Plans work
3.7 Carries out research into a topic
3.8 Asks for help
4. Understanding and following rules, routines and expectations
4.1 Finds way around learning environment
4.2 Copes with queueing / lining up
4.3 Attracts attention in an appropriate manner
4.4 Follows agreed strategies for movement within learning area
4.5 Follows playtime/break time routines
4.6 Shows increased tolerance in relation to expectations
5. Evaluating own learning
5.1 Evaluates own learning
5.2 Applies understanding of own learning
5.3 Knows and applies own strengths
5.4 Recognises own difficulties
5.5 Sets own learning goals
5.6 Understands the consequences of own choices and actions
5.7 Recognises own achievements

Healthy living
1. Keeping healthy
1.1 Identifies own health needs
1.2 Copes with medical appointments
1.3 Understands benefits and risks of medicines
1.4 Knows how to limit spread of infection (coughs and colds)
1.5 Makes healthy choices in relation to food / drink
1.6 Tolerates an increasing range of foods
1.7 Makes healthy choices in relation to exercise
1.8 Makes healthy choices in relation to sleep
1.9 Understands the health risks associated with smoking and alcohol
1.10 Understands the law in relation to drugs, alcohol and smoking
2. Personal care
2.1 Use toilet independently in familiar setting
2.2 Uses public toilet
2.3 Maintains good hand hygiene
2.4 Maintains good bodily hygiene
2.5 Takes interest in own appearance
2.6 Identifies and manages sensory needs in relation to hygiene and clothing
2.7 Dresses self effectively
3. Relationships and sex education
3.1 Identifies personal characteristics
3.2 Recognises and accepts differences between people
3.3 Understands and accepts changes that occur at puberty
3.4 Understands personal space
3.5 Distinguishes between ‘public’ and ‘private’
3.6 Understands different types of relationships
3.7 Uses behaviour appropriate to relationship
3.8 Understands laws relating to consent in relationships
3.9 Keeps safe within relationships
3.10 Knows where to seek advice or help

Independence and community participation
1. Independent living
1.1 Manages own time / routines
1.2 Prepares a simple snack
1.3 Makes a drink for self and/or others
1.4 Prepares to make a meal
1.5 Prepares a meal
1.6 Participates in mealtime with others
1.7 Orders a meal
1.8 Prepares to go shopping
1.9 Shops for items
1.10 Pays for items in shop
1.11 Carries out household tasks
1.12 Manages own money
1.13 Uses a phone
1.14 Plans for the future
2. Personal safety
2.1 Keeps safe in the home
2.2 Keeps safe at school
2.3 Keeps safe when out in the community
2.4 Knows how to get help in the community
2.5 Keeps safe on-line (e-safety)
3. Road safety and travel
3.1 Walks safely by the side of road
3.2 Crosses road safely
3.3 Finds way / follows directions
3.4 Plans a journey / trip out
3.5 Prepares to use public transport
3.6 Uses public transport
3.7 Solves problems that may occur when travelling
4. Leisure
4.1 Shows preference for particular leisure activities
4.2 Plans own leisure activity
4.3 Engages in social exchange within leisure activity
4.4 Takes account of others within leisure activities
4.5 Accepts and applies guidance within leisure activities

[ailink-text]
1. Engaging in interaction

This area focuses on developing fundamental communication skills through interaction with a supporting adult. The aim is to create enjoyable and meaningful interactions whereby the adult ‘tunes in’ and responds to the learner in order to develop their enjoyment of the interaction and to provide them with reasons and opportunities to communicate. This developing understanding of the social nature of communication underpins learning in this area.
Links with other PF areas: Being with others, Positive relationships (supporting adults), Interactive play.



1.1 Responds positively to familiar adult
See Being with others for supporting the young person 
to accept the presence of others prior to engaging with them
• Responds positively to physical contact
Be aware that some children / young people may be sensitive to touch due to sensory needs
• Responds positively to adult’s bid for interaction
e.g. shows interest in adult imitating own noise
• Attends to adult’s facial expression

1.2 Seeks attention from familiar adult
• Seeks proximity with familiar adult
• Seeks to gain adult attention

1.3 Shares attention focus with adult
• Looks where another is looking
• Follows another’s finger point – close
• Follows another’s finger point – distant
• Looks between object and person
• Gives / shows object to share attention
• Accepts adult ‘sharing’ an activity
e.g. playing with a motivating toy, handling an item
• Is aware when object of attention is taken away or paused
e.g. looks for object



1.4 Engages in interactive exchange with adult
• Anticipates familiar actions / activities in an exchange
• Takes turns within interactive exchange or play routine
• Demonstrates shared enjoyment within interactive exchange
e.g. interactive ‘game’, play routine, shared humour or ‘joke’
• Indicates they would like to continue / repeat interaction
e.g. gestures, signs or vocalises ‘more’ during pause in activity (see also 2.3)
• Initiates / requests interaction
e.g. by bringing or taking adult to item or place associated with familiar game, making movements associated with familiar interaction
• Regulates interaction using non-verbal communication
e.g. eye contact, facial expression, gesture, body movement, touch, sounds
• Responds to adult’s non-verbal communication
e.g. engages with eye contact, smiles back, gives a ‘high 5’
• Imitates adult’s actions
e.g. during turn taking and copying game
• Makes connection between their actions and the behaviour of an adult
e.g. if I do this, they’ll do that
• Engages in extended interactive exchange or ‘game’
e.g. ‘chase’ game
• Indicates when ready to end interaction
e.g. signs ‘finish’


Young people should be provided with means, reasons and opportunities to communicate and to be supported to make their needs, thoughts and feelings known. Some learners may benefit from alternative systems of communication which



*Means of communication may include: gesture; vocalisation; signing; object of reference; photo; picture; symbol; written word; spoken word (learned phrase / spontaneous; single word, 2 / 3 word, sentence); AAC (Alternative and Augmentative Communication e.g. communication aid).

should be chosen to suit individual needs and levels of development and used consistently across contexts. Children and young people may move from one means of communication to another as their communication develops. They may also progress in relation to systems of communication used e.g. moving from using a symbol strip to a communication book and then to an electronic (AAC) communication aid. The means of communication should be portable and ‘make sense’ to others e.g. learned phrases that relate to context rather than those based on own interests or echoing another’s words. Providing an effective means of communication can lead to increased autonomy and independence for the young person. Practitioners should ensure that responses to communication are immediate and rewarding so that learners make the link between their actions and the responses of others.
Links with other PF areas: Engaging in interaction
2.1 Makes request for an item (food, drink, object)
• Requests item by ‘taking’ adult to object or place or visual representation of item
May put adult’s hand on the object
• Looks at item and back at person to make request
• Touches item to make request
• Points at item or its visual representation to make request
• Communicates request using behaviour, gesture, facial expression, vocalisation
• Communicates request using sign or visual system (Photo, picture, symbol)
• Communicates request using learned phrase
• Communicates request using spontaneous speech

2.2 Refuses an item / activity / interaction
• Communicates refusal using behaviour, gesture, facial expression, vocalisation
• Communicates refusal using sign or visual system (Photo, picture, symbol)
• Communicates refusal using learned phrase
• Communicates refusal using spontaneous speech

2.3 Makes request for interaction to continue or stop*
e.g. interactive game or song
• Communicates for adult to continue or stop interaction using behaviour, gesture, facial expression, vocalisation
• Communicates for adult to continue interaction or stop using sign or visual system (Photo, picture, symbol)
• Communicates for adult to continue or stop interaction using learned phrase
• Communicates for adult to continue interaction using spontaneous speech

2.4 Requests help
• Requests help by ‘taking’ adult to object or place where help is required
May put adult’s hand on the object
• Looks at item and back at person to ask for help
• Touches item to ask for help
• Points at item or its visual representation to ask for help
• Communicates request for help using behaviour, gesture, facial expression, vocalisation
• Communicates request for help using sign or visual system (Photo, picture, symbol)
• Communicates request for help using learned phrase
• Communicates request for help using spontaneous speech

2.5 Requests information / asks a question
• Asks question to seek information
• Asks question to solve problem
• Uses correct question word
• Uses correct pronoun within question
e.g. where’s my bag?











The ability of children and young people on the autism spectrum will vary widely and range from those who are very articulate to those who may be non-verbal. Ways in which communication can be supported should



*Means of communication may include: gesture; vocalisation; signing; object of reference; photo; picture; symbol; written word; spoken word (learned phrase / spontaneous; single word, 2 / 3 word, sentence); AAC (Alternative and Augmentative Communication e.g. communication aid)

therefore be made available and matched to needs.* Some young people may learn communicative responses appropriate to certain situations and use them without fully understanding their meaning and opportunities should be provided to ensure that contexts for communication are meaningful. Young people on the autism spectrum may not be aware that other people do not have the same information as they do and therefore may not understand the need to comment on events or volunteer information (or understand why they are being asked a question). They may also need support to understand that in certain situations it may not be appropriate or polite to express some feelings and thoughts.
Links with other PF areas: Listening and understanding, Developing confidence and self-esteem, Understanding others’ emotions / intentions.
3.1 
Answers a question*
• Answers familiar question within routine context
e.g. as part of morning register. Be aware that this may be a learned phrase
• Answers unanticipated question
• Responds appropriately to different question words / phrases

3.2 Communicates information about the past and future*
• Uses correct tense for past / future
• Recalls information that relates to self
• Recalls information that does not relate directly to self
• Sequences information correctly when giving information
• Talks about planned future events

3.3 Expresses opinions / thoughts / feelings
See also section on Understanding and Expressing own Emotions
• Volunteers information about what they are thinking / feeling
Encouraging an awareness that others do not know this May need support to recognise that it is inappropriate to share some thoughts
• Gives opinions about a topic / event
e.g. as part of a structured ‘debate’
• Gives reasons for opinions
e.g. Supports opinions with relevant examples or facts
• Accepts that others may agree / disagree with opinions
3.4 
Gives instructions / explanations
• Gives instructions / explanations relating to activities / events in context
e.g. during this activity – we will need…..
• Gives instructions / explanations outside the context of an activity (abstract)
e.g. before an activity has begun – what would happen if…?
• Understands that other people may not have the same information or understanding about an event
e.g. where or when a meeting will take place

3.5 Gives recounts and explanations
• Retells an event or explains a piece of information repeating what they have heard
• Retells an event or explains a piece of information using own words and details
• Recalls important / key information when giving account or explanation
Be aware that perceptions of what is ‘important’ may differ

3.6 Comments on/draws attention to an item/event
• Comments using learned phrases in relevant contexts
• Comments spontaneously using preferred means of communication
• Comments on item / event and looks back at adult / peer to comment
• Comments on what another has said to extend or maintain conversation / discussion
• Comments on items or events that are not present












Practitioners should ensure that individual levels of understanding are accurately assessed and that children and young people are supported in this area using appropriate strategies. Young people may not respond in conventional ways when listening and processing information and practitioners should be aware that looking away or being



*Means of communication may include: gesture; vocalisation; signing; object of reference; photo; picture; symbol; written word; spoken word (learned phrase / spontaneous; single word, 2 / 3 word, sentence); AAC (Alternative and Augmentative Communication e.g. communication aid)

engaged in another activity may not indicate a lack of attention. Young people on the autism spectrum may find spoken language difficult to follow and their understanding can be supported by using clear and uncomplicated language and by supporting speech with additional communication strategies such as signing or visual clarification. Learners may interpret language literally or have difficulty understanding the speaker’s intended meaning if this is not explicit. They may tend not to seek help either due to not recognising or not wanting to reveal difficulties. Figures of speech such as idioms can also be bewildering and support may be needed to help learners recognise this ‘type’ of language and how to seek help.
Practitioners should also be aware that sensory processing issues may have an impact on the young person’s ability to attend to and understand information in certain situations and measures should be taken to ensure that the environment is as conducive to learning as possible. Young people may also need support to pick up on contextual clues to aid their understanding.
Links with other PF areas: Communicating information / commenting on events, Greetings, Non-verbal communication, Conversations, Motivation and Engagement.
4.1 
Responds to sounds
• Recognises and responds to familiar sounds in the environment
e.g. smiles when hears familiar theme tune
• Responds to unfamiliar sounds.
e.g. shows interest / looks worried
• Attends to person who is making sounds
e.g. talking, singing, using objects to make sounds

4.2 Understands single spoken word*
Building up a personal vocabulary of spoken words
• Understands and responds to familiar single words in context

4.3 Understands simple statements*
• Understands and responds to simple statements in context
e.g. Snack time has finished; First it’s work, then it’s computer

4.4 Understands instructions*
• Responds to simple instructions within familiar context
e.g. ‘Give me your book’, ‘sit down’
• Responds to direction to stop / finish what they are doing With prior warning e.g. 2 more minutes / visual support
• Understands instruction with more than one element
e.g. sit on the blue chair
• Carries out a sequence of instructions
e.g. go to the office to get the money then meet me at the door
• 
Responds to instruction to fetch an item from another
location on request (and bring it back) e.g. Fetch the water
• Delivers a message as instructed
e.g. take the register to the office
• Delivers a message in question form and recounts the answer
• Asks for help / clarification when doesn’t understand instruction

4.5 Understands questions*
• Understands and responds to simple questions in a familiar context.
e.g. what’s the weather like today? Differentiate between learned and spontaneous response
• Understands and responds to simple ‘who, what, where’ questions
e.g. Who’s / what’s this? Where is the train? Within real context or picture
• Understands and responds to ‘why’, ‘how’, ‘when’ questions
• Understands and responds to questions about past, present and future events
• Indicates ‘I don’t know’ or ‘I don’t understand the question’ if unsure












Links with other PF areas: Communicating information / commenting on events, Greetings, Non-verbal communication, Conversations, Motivation and Engagement.


*Means of communication may include: gesture; vocalisation; signing; object of reference; photo; picture; symbol; written word; spoken word (learned phrase / spontaneous; single word, 2 / 3 word, sentence); AAC (Alternative and Augmentative Communication e.g. communication aid)



4.6 Extracts relevant meaning / information
• Understands overall / main topic being discussed
i.e. gets the gist rather than focussing on minor details
• Is able to extract information relevant to purpose from spoken information
• Is able to deduce meaning from information
e.g. hears someone say they need to fetch their umbrella so deduces it is raining outside
• Is able to distinguish factual / fictional information (reality
/ fantasy)

4.7 Understands humour and figurative speech Emphasis may be on recognising that they may need support to understand
• Recognises jokes
• Recognises and understands verbal jokes / puns
• Enjoys jokes
Relevant and appropriate to age and learning level
• Recognises and understands common idioms
• Recognises and understands metaphors
• Recognises and understands irony / sarcasm
• Seeks help to understand figurative speech
e.g. asks what is meant by ‘grabbing the bull by the horns’
4.8 
Understands informal speech / slang
• Understands commonly used expressions appropriate to age e.g. teen slang
• Recognises when slang is being used and seeks advice as needed
e.g. records words to ask a trusted friend or adult about later











Greetings are a social skill and some young people on the autism spectrum may need support to recognise when, how and why greetings should be used. Since this behaviour relates closely to context it is important that teaching takes place in real situations with opportunities to learn that different types of greeting behaviour are appropriate to different social situations.
Links with other PF areas: Listening and understanding, Non-verbal communication, Conversations, Positive relationships and friendships (peers), Understanding others’ emotions / intentions.












Having a conversation requires a number of skills relating to communication and interaction and children and young people on the autism spectrum may need support to understand what might be required to be successful. Difficulties in ‘reading’ others’ intentions and feelings may also make this an area requiring support.
Although the teaching of conversational skills is not straightforward, providing opportunities to practice skills in structured situations with positive support should allow young people to gain confidence, identify where they may need help and know how to access it.
Links with other PF areas: Engaging in interaction, Communicating information / commenting on events, Listening and understanding, Greetings, Non-verbal communication, Positive relationships and friendships (peers).




6.1 Gains another’s attention
• Gains attention before attempting communication
e.g. through eye contact, positioning
• Gains attention by using name of communicative partner
• Gains attention using appropriate phrase or convention
e.g. ‘Excuse me’, raising hand
• Uses greeting to gain attention

6.2 Takes lead in conversation
• Checks they have another’s attention before talking to them
• Initiates conversation using appropriate conversation ‘opener’
e.g. asking an appropriate question, topic of interest to another
• Asks relevant questions
e.g. to clarify, maintain or repair conversation
• Ends conversation using conventional strategies
e.g. gives reason for need to move on, excuses self politely




6.3 Responds to conversation partner
• Actively listens to other person in conversation
See also ‘active listening’ in Non-verbal communication
• Takes turns within conversation
e.g. pauses to allow another to speak
• Answers questions to maintain conversation
e.g. to provide more information or clarify
• Interrupts politely at an appropriate point within conversation
• Monitors listener’s response and changes behaviour accordingly within conversation
e.g. ‘reads’ body language, posture, facial expression, eye contact, tone as indicators of boredom, disapproval etc
• Adapts information according to listener’s knowledge within conversation

6.4 Maintains flow of conversation
• Keeps to topic of conversation
Even if topic is chosen by someone else
• Keeps topic of conversation relevant and appropriate
e.g. knows what to keep private
• Switches to a different topic within conversation But may then return to main topic if appropriate
• Expresses opinions, feelings, thoughts related to topic
• Acknowledges others’ feelings, thoughts related to topic












Young people on the autism spectrum may have difficulties understanding the social conventions and behaviour which form a substantial part of everyday communicative exchanges. Since
non-verbal behaviour relates closely to context it is important that teaching in this area takes place in real situations and, where appropriate, provides an explanation as to why certain behaviours are suited to particular situations.
Links with other PF areas: Listening and understanding, Conversations, Positive relationships and friendships (peers).




7.1 Adapts communication / behaviour to suit situation
• Uses / adapts communicative style appropriate to the situation / relationship
e.g. differentiates between peer / adult / familiar / unfamiliar
• Uses voice appropriate to the interaction
e.g. to allow speech to be clearly heard
• Uses gesture to support meaning
• Maintains social distance appropriate to the situation

7.2 Shows evidence of ‘active listening’
• Looks / turns towards person who is communicating
Be aware that looking directly at faces can be difficult due to issues with visual processing so eye contact may not be appropriate
• Indicates engagement through facial expression / body language
e.g. smiles, turns towards ‘speaker’
• Indicates interest or agreement using gesture / vocalisation
e.g. Nods, says ‘Hmmm…’, ‘yes’, ‘Really?’ etc
• Indicates when they do not understand something they have heard
Be aware that they may be nervous about revealing this
• Makes relevant comments in response to what they have heard
e.g. in a group discussion




7.3 Understands non-verbal communication
• Understands familiar gesture in context
e.g. outstretched hand, beckoning
• Understands head shaking / nodding
• Understands common social gestures
e.g. finger to lips indicating ‘Quiet’
• Responds to facial expression as part of communication
e.g. looks worried if adult is frowning, concerned if peer is crying
• Recognises and responds to tone of voice
e.g. understand difference between a serious and ‘jokey’ tone












Tools for teachers
Tool 4 - Conversation Starters Tool 8 - Communication cards
Tool 13 - Appropriate Voice Level cards
Tool 30 - Guidance for using visual strategies


